Name: Mohammed Khalandar 
USN: ENG24CY0034
Section: Cyber-A

1. Which command lists the contents of a directory? Justify with example.
The ls command does that. For example, ls /home/user will show everything inside the specified directory.
ls -l to lists files with details 
ls -a use to include hidden files

2. Command to create a new directory named 123test_dir.
mkdir 123test_dir

3. Purpose of sed and an example.
Sed works as a stream editor. We can quickly make changes to text . For example. Sed 's/apple/orange/g' fruits.txt. That swaps out every apple for orange in the fruits file.

4. Which distinct command displays one-line descriptions of commands?
Whatis command shows the one line description.

5. Command to create an empty file named notes.txt.
touch notes.txt is the command used to create an empty file named notes.txt

6. Differentiate grep and awk with an example.
Grep looks for lines that match some pattern we give it. It prints out those matching lines. Works fine for basic matching jobs.
Awk turns into a whole language for handling text. We can filter stuff through it. Pull out fields. Do some computing on the data. Even format the output nice.
Take an example. Say you want lines with ERROR from a file called log.txt.
grep 'ERROR' log.txt
Now with awk. We could print just the fifth column from lines that have ERROR. That is if columns split by whitespace.
awk '/ERROR/ {print $5}' log.txt

7. Command to give read, write, and execute permission to the owner of script.sh.
Use the command chmod u+rwx script.sh

8. How is chown different from chgrp? Examples.
chown changes file owner Example: If I want to change owner to alice:                 sudo chown alice file.txt
chgrp changes only group ownership. Example:If I want to change group to staff:chgrp staff file.txt

9. A user cannot execute a file even though it exists in their directory. How to troubleshoot using ls-l, chmod, and whoami?
So, first off, check those permissions. Run ls -l filename. Look for the x in the user's section. That means execute. Then use whoami. It shows which user is logged in right now. If the execute bit is missing there, just chmod +x filename. That fixes it up quick.

10. Command pipeline: find .log files modified in last 2 days in /var/log, display them, and save results into recent_logs.txt using tee.
find /var/log -name "*.log" -mtime -2 -print | tee recent_logs.txt
This finds all the matching log files, shows them right away, and saves the list for later
