1. Distinguish between man and whatis commands. Justify with an example.

The man command will show you the entire manual page of a command. The man command lists the full explanation of usage, descriptions, options, and examples for the command.
Example:man ls
→ This will show the full manual page of ls with all details.

The whatis command shows you a one-line summary of the command.
Example: whatis ls
→ It will show something similar to: ls (1) – list directory contents.

2. Use the tee command to save the output of ls -l into a file while also displaying it.
Command: ls -l | tee output.txt

3. Explain with an example how the tee command can be used in logging.
The tee command is useful  when we want to view the output in real-time, while also saving it for later.
Example: ping -c 4 google.com | tee ping_log.txt
It shows the ping results on the screen instantly. At the same time, those same results go into the ping_log.txt file. Then we have a log to check back on.

4. List the steps involved in installing Ubuntu 25.04 LTS on Oracle VirtualBox.
Steps:
Download the Ubuntu 25.04 ISO image file from the Ubuntu website.
Open VirtualBox, click on New VM, and add your name and OS type.
Allocate RAM (at least 2GB).
Create a virtual hard disk ( 20GB or more)
Mount the downloaded ISO image file under the Storage option.
Start the VM and it will boot into the Ubuntu installer.
Follow the onscreen installer prompts such as language choice, timezone, username, and password choice.
Finish installing and restart the VM; you should be able to start Ubuntu.

5. During Ubuntu OS installation, you face a Kernel Panic Error. How would you troubleshoot it?
Verify the ISO file isn't corrupted (use checksum).
Increase memory or processor allocation in the VM setting.
Make sure you've enabled VT-x or AMD-V in the BIOS and VirtualBox settings.
Boot with safe graphics mode, or try booting Ubuntu in Recovery mode.
If it is still unable to fix the issue, we could try re-downloading the ISO file, or boot with an older kernel.

6. Write the command to display the system’s hostname. How to change hostname using sysctl command?
Display hostname: 
           hostname
Change hostname temporarily with sysctl:  
            sudo sysctl kernel.hostname=newname

7. Which command is used to show the calendar of the year 1984 with August month?
Command:  cal 8 1984

8. Write a command to display system uptime and logged-in users together.
Command:   uptime && who
uptime → shows system running time. who → lists logged-in users. 

9. Use the find command to list all “.c” files in /home/user.
Command:    find /home/user -name "*.c"

10. How do you change file permissions to allow only the owner to read and write?
Command:  chmod 600 filename

     



