1. A system has a file /etc/passwd. How would you use grep + tee to extract usernames and save them to a file while also displaying them on screen?
The /etc/passwd file stores user account details. To extract usernames we can use grep with cut and tee:
Command: cut -d: -f1 /etc/passwd | tee usernames.txt

cut -d: -f1 → takes the first field (username). tee usernames.txt → shows usernames on the screen and saves them to usernames.txt.

2. A binary isn’t found in $PATH. How would you use commands (which, find, locate) to troubleshoot and fix the issue?
Steps:
Use which to check if the binary is in the PATH:   which program_name

If not found, search the whole system with find:   sudo find / -name program_name

If locate is available, it’s faster:   locate program_name
Once found, either run it with the full path or add its directory to PATH in .bashrc:   export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/binary

3. Write a command pipeline that finds all .log files modified in the last 24 hours in /var/log and saves results into log_report.txt.
Command:
              find /var/log -name "*.log" -mtime -1 | tee log_report.txt


4. What is the difference between shutdown -r now and reboot?
Shutdown -r now does things the nice way. It shuts down all the processes gracefully. Then it unmounts the disks safely. After that, it restarts the system. 
Reboot just jumps right in and reboots the system. Still, in modern Linux setups, it does a safe shutdown too. Not always as careful as the other command, but close enough most times.

5. How can you use the tee command to debug a script that generates both standard output and error messages?
We can redirect both stdout and stderr through tee:
./myscript.sh 2>&1 | tee debug.log
That way the script output and errors show up on the screen.A copy gets saved in debug.log too. We can analyze it later.

6. Explain any three real-world applications of Linux in industries.
Web servers run on Linux mostly. Things like Apache and Nginx work great there. It is stable and secure.
Cloud computing depends on it heavily. Platforms such as AWS, Azure, and GCP build their infrastructure around Linux.
Networking and security use it too. Routers and firewalls rely on Linux. Even penetration testing tools like Kali Linux are based on it.

7. Differentiate application, system, and utility software in the context of Linux environment.
System software is the operating system kernel. The Linux kernel controls the hardware basically.
Utility software includes helper tools. Grep, ls, and tar make tasks easier for you.
Application software is for end users. Programs like LibreOffice, Firefox, or media players fit here.

8. What are the key differences between open-source and proprietary operating systems?
Open source ones are free to use, modify, and distribute. The source code is available to everyone.Open source gives freedom and transparency
Proprietary systems have closed source. You need a license and modification is limited. Proprietary offers polish but with restrictions.

9. Write the command to display the system’s kernel version.
uname -r.
That shows something like 5.15.0-56-generic.

10. What is the difference between head and tail commands in text processing?
Head displays the first lines of a file. For example head -n 5 file.txt gets the first 5 lines.
Tail shows the last lines instead. Like tail -n 5 file.txt for the last 5 lines.
